Study: Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine (one section)/thoracic section.
MRI machine: Philips Intera 1.5T.
Age: 62.
Sex: Female.
Race: Caucasian.
Brief anamnesis of the disease (complaints): Headache (for a long time, back of the head),
dizziness (sometimes), numbness of the body and face (and shoulder blade, left arm), pain in the
spine (for a long time, cervical region).

REPORT
On a series of MR tomograms weighted at T1 and T2 in two planes with fat suppression /T2-
stir/:
The thoracic kyphosis is preserved.
Degenerative changes (dehydration) of C7-Th12 discs are noted, the height of Th7-Th12 discs
is reduced.
The shape and size of the vertebral bodies are normal.
Anterior osteophytes of Th1-Th12 vertebrae.
Anterolateral osteophytes in the form of staples at the level of Th3-Th10, Th12-L1 segments.
Moderately pronounced diffuse and focal dystrophic changes in vertebral bodies at the level of
visualization.
The bony spinal canal in the sagittal plane was not narrowed.
Dorsal disc extrusions:
median-paramedian left-sided extrusion of Th7-Th8 measuring 0.25 cm, the spinal canal at the
level of disc prolapse is not narrowed; the lumen of the foraminal windows is not narrowed, without
signs of spinal root compression;
median extrusion of Th9-Th10 measuring 0.2 cm, the spinal canal at the level of disc prolapse
was not narrowed; the lumen of the foraminal windows was not narrowed, without signs of spinal
root compression;
Dorsal disc protrusions:
median Th6-Th7 protrusion measuring 0.2 cm, the spinal canal at the level of disc prolapse is
not narrowed; the lumen of the foraminal windows is not narrowed, without signs of spinal root
compression;
Dorsal bulging of the Th9-Th10 disc up to 0.15 cm is visualized.
The thoracic spinal cord has a normal configuration, width and homogeneous structure.
There are signs of mild spondyloarthrosis at the level of Th1-Th12 segments.
Pre- and paravertebral soft tissues are unchanged. The fatty tissue surrounding the dural sac is
unchanged.
CONCLUSION

MR signs of degenerative-dystrophic changes in the thoracic spine. Extrusions of Th7-Th8, Th9-
Th10 discs. Protrusions of Th6-Th7, Th9-Th10 discs. Spondyloarthrosis at the level of Th1-Th12
segments. Spondylosis at the level of Th3-Th10, Th12, L1 segments.
RECOMMENDATIONS
Consultation with a neurologist.

Year of study and report: 2023